Hello everyone and welcome to this coding exercise right.
Really excited to start training our deep neural network to be able to classify our fashion items into
10 categories.
As you can see here we're going to start with the problem statement and business case.
So just to recap we had 70000 images they are divided into 60000 training data sets and 10000 testing
samples.
The data again they are divided into 28 by 28 greyscale images and the target class is actually No.
1 out of 10 which is kind of a target label which can be categorized as you can see into either like
maybe a shoe maybe like like pants.
Basically these are the target classes.
We have the t shirts trousers pullovers ankle boots sneakers and so on so forth.
All right.
So let's get started by importing the data and then afterwards we can do visualization of data sets
and then going to do training of the model and then we're going to do evaluation of the model and then
we're going to conclude the section.
All right.
Let's get started.
The first step is we wanted to import the data.
So before importing the data we are going to import the key libraries that we had that we need basically
in this exercise.
So first step one is to import Pandurs so we can import pandas as speedy.
And then we're going to import some pie as MP for you for you guys if you don't know our pandas get
maybe to use for data manipulations using the airframes.
It's kind of you know it's kind of similar to Excel.
You know it can be dealing with tables and it's really powerful tool or library.
And then afterwards we get important up-I.
So we're going to import some pie as MP and then we're going to import mat PLA tcllib for plotting and
visualization.
So we're going to import mats lot live
pie plots as P.L. tea and then we're going to import seaborne as well for for visualization as well
mainly for statistical visualization.
So we're going to import seaborne as asinus.
All right.
And let's run these cells.
OK we're good.
The next step is that we wanted to import the data so the data is contained within a folder called input.
So we're going to do that we're going to read the C S V files mainly which is what we call it fashion
train and fashion M.A. test data sets.
All right.
So we're going to do is we're going to do PD that read see is V and what we're going to do we're going
to specify our input folders so we have our inputs and then we're going to include the actual the name
of the of the of the data.
So let me copy it here so this is simply the name of the files.
It's called fashion Amneris training or training as V.
And we need to specify that we have our separator.
We're going to be equal to.
And we have our common.
All right.
And what we're going to read here we want to put it kind of an hour in a data frame.
So going to do fashion underscore train Discordia F and that will be my first data.
Right.
And that's kind of the training data.
All right let's do pretty much the same but for fashion test the as for the testing data and again it
is called Fashion amnesty.
But instead of change going to be test and then we see as V and think we're going to go right.
Let's run this
let's run this too.
OK we're good to go.
So now we have fashion and we have for the training data set and for testing they test it.
All right.
That's pretty much all we need for the important portion.
The next section we're going to go through visualization and that will be really interested and really
interesting and we've got to be very going to be a very exciting section.
All right.
I hope you guys enjoy that section and see you in the next one.
Mr. Tauriel we're going to visualize our dataset and take a look at it using different libraries that
we imported before.
All right.
So let's get started.
So let's delete those and let's start with the visualization.
First of all here let's take a look at our data frame and let's look at the head portion of it.
OK so as you can see here this is basically our images.
Someone can tell me OK what are the image actually the images are presented in 28 by 20 pixels which
is 784 pixels.
So simply we took the image and we flattened the image so that each row here represents an image right.
So simply we have five rows.
This is basic and they have portion only.
So in total we have 60000 titting datasets.
OK.
Over here because I'm showing only the head that's why I'm just showing the beginning or the first head
portion of our benefit.
All right.
So that's the first part we're good.
Let's do this as well but let's instead of had We're just going to call it tail.
Let's see what's going to happen.
So here the tail of the ending actually is pretty good.
Interesting so here we have 60000 samples as we expected.
And we have all the pixels pretty pretty pretty pretty much for all the fraud out image.
All right.
The next step is we wanted to explore let's say the testing data sets.
So we're going to take that testing.
They are afraid and are going to call it heads that we're going to view the test.
Are very much the same so it has again is again their images too.
And and let's view as well the tail if you want we're going to do this again.
And that will show us the tail so we have again 10000 samples as we expected.
OK now we're good to go.
All right.
The next step is we wanted to view the shape for example of our fashion training and testing.
Let's check out the shape as well of our frame.
So let's go to fashion chain and let's specify a shape method shape so that give me 60000 by 75.
That's what we're expecting.
And again we can do the same the same command again in a cockpit but for sort of chain we're going to
conduct tests for the testing data set that would tell me 10000 times 75 which is perfect.
OK.
All right perfect.
So let's create training and testing arrays so we can actually explore these arrays and actually view
or visualize the data.
All right.
The first step is we're going to call it training.
OK.
And we're going to call and N.P. and some pies and for some pie that array and we're going to call our
fashion fashion train data frame and we're going to specify that the D type or type will get to be float
free to float that you are right that simply will going to create our matrix or array training first.
All right let's run this game with goods and then we're going to do the same as well.
But for testing so we're going to copy this business of training and testing.
And then here we're going to call it fashion tests IDF again the same stuff.
So when we have training and we have testing.
Right next step is we wanted to let's visualize maybe one image.
Let's take an idea of OK how can we visualize just one image in a form of twenty eight by twenty eight
pixels.
Right.
So we could do that we can specify plots that image show to actually show an image and then let's specify
specific training data sample.
So we're going to go into training and we're going within the training kind of no metrics.
We're going to specify that we need any row.
So we need let's say Rule Number 10 for example ok which indicates an image and we need all the columns.
Right.
So what we need to do that we need to specify the let's say Rule Number 10 but we need every single
column we need the Empire pixels we need all the pics of that we have which is 782.
So we could do with it to call this we're going to say OK we need one and all.
OK.
That specify the entire columns.
All right.
The only problem is what we in order to show you an image or using an image show we need to reshape
our data to actually be in the form of 20 able 28.
We can do this by applying the reshape.
So we're going to do reshape and we want to specify the dimensions so he can specify the image 28 by
28 that will show us the basically the image.
Let's let's run it's all pretty interesting that's actually looks like a T-shirt.
Pretty good.
Let's try maybe a different.
Let's try maybe Rule Number 12.
Tell me OK that's like you know look like a boot.
Let's try maybe row number like 60.
We have 60000.
OK this looks like like like a shoe.
If you keep good keep going let's say six hundred.
That will tell me again another T-shirt and so on.
All right.
So instead of doing this we're going to do if we're going to specify a random value.
So we wanted to kind of you know like tested you know using random values just generate a couple of
random veteran numbers and when instead of using here the value you know we set it ourselves was going
to write it as an index index where we can specify it as random thought Rand int and when to specify
any number between 1 and 60000.
They just all of all samples.
The only problem if we don't this actually going to run into a problem.
Tell me OK name random is not defined.
So we actually need to do that we need to go and define random.
So are just going to import random simply.
We can do this here beforehand so we can import random stron it we're good at it it's now we're good.
Now we're just you know like running kind of randomised numbers and viewing it the next step that we
wanted to display.
They want to display the label for it.
Want to make sure that we actually understand what actually the data even makes sense.
Right.
So if you guys look here.
OK.
The key element really important which is indicating that the first element here is label.
That's the first column.
And that's why actually when we rent here we select was elected not from index zero we actually select
from index 1 because we want to skip the label.
I didn't want the label to be included in my image and that's why we skipped it right.
I should have though I should have said that earlier.
But I hope you guys are not confused by one and all.
Why.
Because again who's the target caller.
All right.
So what to do right now if I need to show the label order to do this I'm just going to call it label.
OK.
And I'm going to do a thing called training.
All right.
I'm going to go inside my training.
I'm just going to pick basically the value of my index along with zero which is simply the value here
in my first column.
Right.
What are you going to do.
Actually let's go and let's put them all together in one cell so we can just maybe run them all together
and try different numbers so he did this so I'm going to say that and it looks pretty good.
What we need to do actually in addition to showing it.
I just want to show the label too.
Right.
So let's try.
It's actually pretty cool.
They can tell you OK this is actually so label Phyfe.
All right.
So what I need to do to confirm this was just going to show you just going to copy and paste here the
10 classes just for my reference.
OK.
So here I just copy them just you know format.
So five indicates a sandal actually looks like a standard from it to me.
Right sign and a couple of samples are actually.
This is a sneaker.
So which is seven sneaker looks good.
One more time.
Looks like like a pullover.
You know it's a little confusing.
And you can see actually that the next we actually get a little bit confused with it to pull over to
then run it again.
And one more time and then one more time with told me.
8 was little bit of bag.
Let's try one more time actually let's try one.
I just want to see you Sam Okay that's for the coat.
Yeah it looks like a coat.
And one more time that's actually one which the trousers what.
Then what.
Good to go.
Right.
That actually makes sense.
And and we are pretty much you know kind of visual the data.
What I need to do in the next section is to visualize the data as well.
But instead of visualizing them you know just one by one.
I wanted to plot let's say like like a matrix.
All right so now let's view the data in a matrix format.
So what we're going to do is we're going to simply just going to copy the code here I'm going to walk
you through it.
OK.
Just to.
So in a simpler form we can create the matrix or grids.
OK that's 15 by 15.
All right.
And what we're going to do here is that we're going to create subplots of dimensions of our grid and
specify the figure size and then afterwards we're going to flatten our array or our axes simply from
15 by 15.
We're going to make it into our array of 225.
When you can get the length of the training data.
Okay.
And then afterwards we're going to create a loop.
Right.
That goes from 0 up till two hundred and twenty five which is the overall number of images that we wanted
to basically plot.
And then we're going to every time we get to create and create a random variable.
And then once we get there in the variable are we going to show that variable and then we're going to
show as well the index of the variable.
That's what I wanted to do I wanted to show.
OK what's my target class as well.
So we can get an idea of what does it look like.
And then here we're just going to set access to off just to avoid you know all the growing number of
pixels around the image because we're gonna be plotting a lot of images in this case.
And then afterwards we're just going to adjust the space just to height between the images so we can
be able to view the data.
All right.
Let's run the cell.
It's taken a little bit of a while here.
And yet here you go.
Looks great.
So as you can see here we have pretty much just wanted to give you kind of a visual sense of what categories
we're looking at.
So as you can see there are bags that are sneakers that are sort of sandals that are sneakers here that
are like jackets trousers and so on.
So we have pretty much like you know all the time classes pretty much presented.
Right.
That looks great.
So that's pretty much all what I need.
When it comes to the visualization section I hope you guys enjoyed that section and see you in the next
one.